---
title: "The Train Station Theory"
date: 2026-02-03
category: Theory
tags:
  - theory
  - life
  - psychology
---

# Can you imagine that every relationship we have in our lives is just like a train station? I've never thought it was before until now. Why are people around me fading away like nothing? It seems like I am unimportant; that thought lingered in my mind for the past few days. It was never a coincidence. Like a hard splash of water on my face, this theory refreshes my mind. It wasn't proven psychologically, but it relates to modern conversation. Every relationship we have in our lives is just like a train station. We're just passengers waiting in the station, and every relationship is a train. We don't decide the timetable; it will come whether we're ready or not, and it'll go whether we're ready or not. And people in our life, they're the same passengers as us. We get to know them, we make a bond with them, even falling in love with them, but every passenger waits for the train. When the train arrives, they will leave us, whether we're ready or not. Maybe we can board the same train, but the harsh truth is that they're still uncertain. They can accompany us for the rest of the journey, through the dark tunnel, or they will leave at the next station and leave us empty. So when we lose friends, **it doesn't mean we were bad friends**, no, it's not. We were just two people standing at the same platform, and our trains had different timetables, or two people sitting on the same train waiting for the station we got off, and waiting for the next train to the next destination. Sometimes we meet a person with the same vibes as us and perfectly compatible with our personality, but it doesn't mean we will board the same train, or it doesn't guarantee that person will be with us for the rest of our journey. Timing wasn't the only factor. It's as vital as the bond itself. If you miss the chance to be in relationship, a.k.a to board the train, the train will moves on, and you don't jump onto the track to chase it and you just simply wait for the next train. The train theory teaches us that when people get out of my life, it wasn't personal. It's simply because they've just reached their stop. This theory helps us to let people go without resentment. *That train has left the station, but it's okay. The platform will never be left empty for too long; sooner or later, a train arrives, and we decide to board it or let it pass.* And if we decide to board it, whether it's an express or a local train, it eventually leads us to the next station, or maybe it will get us to our final journey. and still feel excited for the people we'll meet in our journey or even in the next station and train.